# Playtest for Destiny 2

* Bungie
* 5 out of 7
* https://www.bungie.net/

**Question:** During your playtesting where the rules of the game understandable? If not, what was not clear.
> _Answer:_ I would say that everything is understandble from how abilities work and controls to how loot functions. The most confusing aspect for new players would be understanding what they should do first in terms of acitivites, it can be very over the top and if the player has no one to guide them, they could get lost. Another thing that may be confusing is triumphs as they are kinda hidden on the second tab of the character page, but those do not really affect gameplay.  

**Question:** During gameplay did you notice anything that shouldn't be in the game or could be removed and it wouldn't effect game play?
> _Answer:_ I did not see anything in the game that should not be there. The UI is clear when it comes to abilities, loot and loot sources are needed, the interface for destinations is clear, the activity playlists are also clear. Everything is there for a reason.

**Question:** Is this game balanced? If not, what is the target audience for this game based on that imbalance?
> _Answer:_ This game is based around using super powered abilities and achieving that power system. The game also has PVP so as you can imagine, it is very unbalanced. Surprisingly, in player versus enemy, the game is pretty balanced in terms of weapons and classes but in player versus player, it is different. Most abilities are able to set you up for an easy kill and going against a super ability is almost a garaunteed death. For most cases, this ability power is not a problem as abilities have a cool down of usually a minute to four minutes but some abilites are too rampant. What comes to mind is something like shatter dive which is almost always a garaunteed kill as the grenade freezes the enemy and then the shatter dive finishes them. The target audience is those who crave a power fantasy and want to do insane things like freeze people, shoot lightning, or phase people out of existence. 

**Question:** Does the timing of this game appear to be about right for this type of game?
> _Answer:_ I would say that the timing of this game was perfect. Destiny kicked off the phase of every game trying to be a "live-service" game for better and worse but since Destiny was the first in this phase, they were able to learn from their mistakes and stay ahead of the competition as well as get a large player base. Most gamers were not sure if a live-service game would be for them and for most, it was not. Destiny allowed people to get sucked into their game as their first taste of a live-service and thus was seen as the difinitive live-service in its genre. Games like the Division which is arguably better built that Destiny cannot achieve the player base that Destiny does because it simply came after everyone got attached to Destiny and the legendary activity of a raid being so perfectly done in Destiny made Destiny the go to.

**Question:** During gameplay did the mechanics and theme go together and reinforce each other?
> _Answer:_ I would say that the two do mesh together really well. The theme of the world is similar to that of the game Monster Hunter, the world is dangerous and full of wonder and mystery- grab a weapon, explore, fight, and collect loot. All the mechanics service this line that I just stated, the game really builds on the power fantasy of the player by allowing them to create builds that satisfy them and with the class reworks coming in the new expansion, this customization and variety is only going to strengthen. The loot is over following with choices and vareity and again is only increasing with the new expansion. We have our power fantasy, our weapon, how is the fighting? amazing.
> The amazing gunplay was one of the factors that kept Destiny alive back in its horrid launch. Every weapon and ability and super feels so responsive and clean that when you miss a shot or super, you get angry at yourself instead of the game. The exploring aspect of the game is servicable if not average unfortantely. There are things like secret missions that work to service the exploring factor but most destinations are pretty similar to each other with minor puzzles so solve. One aspect where the exploring factor really kicks in is in raids, it truly feels like you are exploring this temple lost to time and riddled with secrets. 

**Question:** Did you have fun playing this game?
> _Answer:_ I have been playing this game since its original release back in 2014 when I was thirteen years old. I literally grew up playing this game every week after school and got excited for every new expansion that would be released with the game. I have been there through the up and downs of this game, took hiatus's and came back, and stayed up into the late hours grinding out challenges and raids. This game holds such a close place to my heart as I met many friends over it and bonded with a ton more. I have made triumphs against inpossible challenges and taken devestating losses. This game is the most fun I've ever had in a game because it truly feels like there are stakes, when I am doing a raid and we are so close to finally beating it, my heart is pounding. Not for the sake of any character but for the sake of me and my friends. It is very much like Dungeons and Dragons where you talk about your acomplishments as "you" doing them. You slayed Oryx, You are a Iron Wolf, You are the gaurdian.

**Question:** During gameplay what problems or issues seemed to happen and how did you get them to reoccur?
> _Answer:_ The most common issue that I incountered was that major enemies can knock you back with such speed that you die once you hit a wall. It probably has something to do with collision as the velocity they throw you back is not nearly fast enough to kill you when thrown against objects. There are other issues that I have heard about within the community but none other that I have encountered myself. 
