---
layout: slides
title: Quality lab
---

# Quality Lab

* The three games that we decided to talk about where Valorant, God of War(2018), and Enter the Gungeon.
* 	Valorant is an online competitive multiplayer hero shooter, with that many keywords, there is a lot of quality to fill. We see many games try to break into a competitive scene but they always end up lacking the quality to do it, so What allows Valorant to hold that quality and rise above other classic competitors like Counter-Strike? The biggest thing that Valorant does for itself is fill in the quality of correctness. So many “competitive games” come out without a good matchmaking system, without good hitboxes, and without a satisfying game loop with room for player improvement. To me, these are the pillars to building a player base on a competitive game and Valorant nails these with different heroes allowing variety to the game play loop and increasing the skill ceiling. Quick matchmaking and good hitboxes make sure that aggravation only comes from lack of skill. Usability is another quality that every game needs to have and Valorant has this. The skills are easily mapped near each other, the buying of guns is similar to other systems found in other games, and the interface is clear to understand. A competitive game does not need to be endlessly competitive and hard to understand- it needs to be simple and easy to understand while allowing the depth to come from player skill. It gives a stable canvas for the player to “paint”. 
* When God of War came out, it quickly marked itself as a benchmark in video game storytelling and gameplay. The quality in that game was undeniable and that is impart due to its interoperability and reliability. Interoperability is the effort of how one system couples with another which God of War does criminally well. The main focus of the game is the development of the relationship between Kratos and his son and the game never loses sight of that. Combat breaks out and you can hear quips exchanged between the two, when the two get in a boat to explore, they begin to have conversations between each other. Furthermore- the skill tree for Kratos begins to involve moves comboing with his son. Through every aspect of the game from exploration to combat to skill progression includes building the relationship of Kratos and his son. A quick summary of other systems include how exploration increases combat effectiveness and combat effectiveness opens paths for exploration. Reliability is the cornerstone in what makes combat so enjoyable in this game. Moves are clearly telegraphed, the time of moves never changes, there is clear risk and reward to every type of move and everything is clear in what's happening. A game like “Law-Breakers” is a clear example of a lack of reliability. In that game, everything is moving so fast and characters begin meshing together that you don’t even know what killed you. God of War provides excellent foresight as it is clear that they had a plan and stuck to it to interweave their systems and make their combat reliable.

* The game that I personally chose was Enter the Gungeon. For this game, I will choose the two quality benchmarks of correctness and efficiency. Enter the Gungeon is a rouge-like bullet hell game that is highly dependent on player reflexes, thus the two factors of quality that I mentioned are all too important. When playing a rogue-like, you need the gameplay loop to be punishing towards the player's lack of understanding of basic mechanics. Along with player upgrades, enemy/boss variety, and good procedural generation, this is the requirements of a good rogue-like. Enter the Gungeon has all of these qualities and honestly does them the best except for maybe procedural generation. The hallmark of a good Enter the Gungeon player is how they utilize their dodge rolls, blanks, and weapons. These are the absolute basics of gunplay that everyone starts off with. No matter how many power ups you have and buffs, if you cannot dodge and manage your blanks correctly- you will die. Power ups do help however, Enter the Gungeon has some of the best ones. Guns that fire flaming bullets, frogs that fire bubbles, and even bullets that fire guns- it is all variety and flavor to the loop. Enemy variety is another thing that keeps me coming back, the absolute number of bosses, mini-bosses, and standard enemies is so encompassing that there is an in-game manual to help you document and keep track. Procedural generation is good but nothing to write home about as it provides different floor levels, enemies, and loot but nothing more. Alongside all of that is the efficiency of the game. Being a 2-D game, there is not a lot to process and thus the traveling of bullets and the speed of movement is crisp and clear. Attacks are clearly telegraphed and where attacks are going to land are marked. Never in my switch player life have I seen so many animated sprites moving with such clarity than when I am playing Enter the Gungeon. This game is a what every rouge-like should try to be and build on.
